This project contains files to build version 3.0 of the Community Aerosol and
Radiation Model for Atmospheres (CARMA) that is based off of the 2.3 release,
but has been ported to Fortran 90 and repackaged so that it can be used as a
cloud and aerosol physics package embedded into GCMs. The project consists of
4 components that are each located in their own subdirectories:

  - bin    : the F90doc documentation generation tool
  - doc    : the change log and HTML based documentation
  - source : the CARMA microphysics layer
  - tests  : the test routines & benchmark results
  
Two script files have been provided to build and run the model or its
components. To build carma and the test cases, issue the following command
rom the root directory:

  make-carma.csh
  
This will build all the files in a subdirectory called build/carma. To run
a sample carma model, execute the following command from the root directory:

  run-carma.csh
  
This will copy the CARMA.exe executable to the directory run/carma and then
will execute it with all output going to the run/carma directory. The
dependency hierarchy is set up in the make files, so rebuilding should only
rebuild what is necessary. There are only two #defines that can be set in the
makefile to control the build. One specifies the precision (SINGLE) and the other
is used to build a version with extra debug information (DEBUG). The scripts can
also be used to build individual executables. For example, to build and run the
NUCTEST test routine and to have the run performed in a directory named nuctest
(this part is optional) execute:
  
  make-carma.csh NUCTESTexe
  run-carma.csh NUCTEST.exe

NOTE: bash and ksh users will need to use export rather than setenv.

Plotting routines have been created for each test in IDL. If you set CARMA_IDL
to be the path to your copy of IDL, then IDL should be launched automatical, and
the messages will indicate the program that you should run. On the Mac, you would
set a path like:

  setenv CARMA_IDL /Applications/itt/idl/idl80/bin/idl

After exectuing

 run-carma.csh NUCTEST.exe
 
you should see an IDL prompt that looks like this:


    ** Finished at Wed Jul 13 20:41:11 MDT 2011 **

  Running the IDL analysis routine read_nuctest.pro
    To run the test, in IDL you need to type the command: .r read_nuctest.pro
    To exit IDL, type the command: exit

  IDL Version 8.0, Mac OS X (darwin x86_64 m64). (c) 2010, ITT Visual Information Solutions
  Installation number: 95183-2518.
  Licensed for use by: ACD:acd-license:Linux.FL

  IDL> 
  
Type:

  .r read_nuctest.pro
  
and you should get a plot generated showing the results of the test.


Documentation of the code is generated automatically by the make scripts using
the program f90doc, which is located in the bin directory. The generated
documentation is stored as html files in the directory doc/f90doc. To start
browsing the documentation, open the file doc/index.html.


The model supports OPEN/MP, which will allow the model to use multiple
processors if the model is called with multiple columns. You need to add
a compiler directive to enable OPEN/MP (-openmp for ifort) and you need
to specify the number of threads when you run. The  run script uses the
CARMA_THREADS flag to determine how many threads to allow during execution.
The dault is 1 thread. To run with 4 threads issue the command

  setenv CARMA_THREADS 4

before using the run script.

Several test cases have been developed to show how the CARMA model
can be used and to test that the model physics is performing correctly. The
source code for these tests are located in the tests subdirectory.

To run all of the tests interactively, use the command

  run-all.csh
  
To run all of the tests in the background and compare the results to
benchmark results, use the command

  run-regress.csh
  
The benchmarks are stored in tests/bench and were created on a Mac
using the Intel Fortran compiler. You may get slightly different
results on other platforms or with other compilers.


The entire project can be put into a tar file, using the command

  make-carma.csh tar
  
This will create a tar file called CARMA.tar in the current build directory,
which defaults to build/carma. NOTE: This tar file does not contain the
contents of the build, doc or run directories since they are
products of the make and run scripts.

CARMA has a ChangeLog in the doc directory. It contains the revision history
of CARMA. When changes are made, please prepend the ChangeLog with a
description of the change based upon filling out the ChangeLog_template
which is also stored in the doc directory.


Chuck Bardeen, Pete Colarco and Jamie Smith
Jul-2011
